Docker Scout onboarding guide (#17629)
docker/docs: scout/quickstart.md

---
title: Docker Scout quickstart
keywords: scout, supply chain, vulnerabilities, packages, cves, scan, analysis, analyze
description: >
  Learn how to get started with Docker Scout to analyze images and fix vulnerabilities
redirect_from:
  - /atomist/get-started/
---

{% include scout-early-access.md %}

Docker Scout analyzes image contents and generates a detailed report of packages
and vulnerabilities that it detects. Docker Scout can provide you with
suggestions for how to remediate issues discovered by image analysis.

The guide takes a vulnerable application image and shows you how to use Docker
Scout to identify and fix those vulnerabilities, compare changes over time,

> and share results with your team.

Author: There's some parts here that are intentional, so will pull out bits and pieces

You can use [this example project](https://github.com/docker/scout-demo-service)
to follow along by cloning its repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/docker/scout-demo-service.git
```

Move into the directory:

```shell
cd scout-demo-service
```

> Build the image using the intended repository name, tagging it as "v1":

Reviewer: Intended repository name? Also "tag" refers the full name: `<org-name>/scout-demo:v1`

```shell
docker build -t <org-name>/scout-demo:v1 .
```

Create and push the repository on Docker Hub, again using the intended
repository name:

```shell
docker push <org-name>/scout-demo:v1
```

> **Important**
>
> Make sure you login to the Docker CLI or Docker Desktop before pushing.
> {: .important}

Docker Scout analyzes all local images by default. To analyze images in
remote repositories, you need to enable it first.
[You can do this from Docker Hub, the Docker Scout Dashboard, and CLI](/scout#).

This guide uses the Docker Scout CLI [`repo enable`](/engine/reference/commandline/scout_repo_enable)
command to enable analysis on an existing repository with the following command:

```shell

> docker scout repo enable <org-name>/scout-demo

Author: The command currently only works for repositories on Docker Hub.

```

After building, using Docker Desktop or the `docker scout` CLI command, you
should be able to see vulnerabilities detected by Docker Scout.

Using Docker Desktop, select the image name in the **images** tab to see the image layer view.
In the image hierarchy section, you can
see which layers introduce vulnerabilities and the details of those.

Focus on the vulnerability introduced in layer 5.

Select layer 5, toggle the disclosure triangle next to **express 4.17.1**,
and then the CVE ID (in this case, "CVE-2022-24999⁠") to see details of the
vulnerability.

> ![Screenshot showing highlighting a CVE in Docker Desktop](./images/scout-onboarding-dd-v1-cvve-focus.png)

Reviewer: I get why there is a screenshot here, but this isn't actually doing what we want it to do. I think if anything, we could include a short screen capture showing these clicks. But I wouldn't keep this screenshot as-is

Docker Scout creates and maintains its vulnerability database by ingesting and
collating vulnerability data from multiple sources continuously. These sources
include many recognizable package repositories and trusted security trackers.
You can find more details in the [Advisory Database sources](./advisory-db-sources.md) document.

You can also use the Docker Scout CLI to see the same results.

```shell
docker scout cves <org-name>/scout-demo:v1
```

> ![Screenshot showing highlighting a CVE in the Docker Scout CLI](./images/scout-onboarding-cli-v1.png)

Reviewer: Remove this screenshot

> **Tip**
>
> Find out how filter results [in the reference documentation for the CLI command](/engine/reference/commandline/scout_cves).
> {: .tip }

## Fix application vulnerabilities

The fix suggested by Docker Scout is to update

> the underlying vulnerable express version to 4.17.3 or later. Do this by

Reviewer: Is it necessary to call out the exact version upgraded to here? Feels like this could go out of date if there's a new patch release or if there's a change in the recommendations engine.

```suggestion
the Express package to a later version. Do this by
```

changing the `package.json` file.

```json
…
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "4.17.3"
    …
  }
```

Rebuild the image, giving it a new version tag:

```shell
docker build -t <org-name>/scout-demo:v2 .
```

Push the image it to the same repository on Docker Hub using a new version tag:

```shell
docker push <org-name>/scout-demo:v2

> ```

Reviewer: These should be steps.

Now, viewing the latest tag of the image in Docker Desktop, the Docker Scout
Dashboard, or CLI, you can see that you have fixed the vulnerability.

## Fix vulnerabilities in base images

In addition to identifying application
vulnerabilities, Docker Scout also helps you identify and fix issues with the
base images your images use.

In Docker Desktop and the Docker Scout Dashboard, you can see these suggestions
by selecting the **Recommended fixes** button in the image layer view.

Select the **Recommendations for base image…** option from the button. In the
dialogue that appears, select the **Change base image** tab, the new version of
the base image you want to use, and copy the suggestion into your `Dockerfile`.

Rebuild the image, again with a new tag:

```shell
docker build -t <org-name>/scout-demo:v3 .
```

Push it to Docker Hub using the new version tag:

```shell
docker push <org-name>/scout-demo:v3
```

Select the new image tag in Docker Desktop or the Docker Scout Dashboard and you
can see that the base image has been updated, removing many vulnerabilities.

You can see the same using the CLI command:

```shell
docker scout cves <org-name>/scout-demo:v3

> ```

Reviewer: Steps

## Collaborate on vulnerabilities

> You can see and share the same vulnerability information about an image and
> the other images in your organization in the [Docker Scout Dashboard](./dashboard.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Analysis results for your organization's images appear in the [Docker Scout Dashboard](./dashboard.md).
```

> Developers can see an overview of all their images from Docker Hub and Artifactory,

Reviewer: Not just developers I guess, but security champions etc that are part of the org can also get this information from the dashboard.

```suggestion
Organization members can see an overview of all their images from Docker Hub and Artifactory,
```

and get remediation advice at their fingertips. This helps team members in
security, compliance, and operations to know what vulnerabilities and issues to focus on.

From the **Images** tab of the [Docker Scout Dashboard](https://scout.docker.com), select any of the tags under
the **Most recent image** column, and you can see the same vulnerability

> information as you saw in Docker Desktop and the Docker Scout CLI and share this link with anyone else in your organization.

Reviewer: Docker Scout is not a separate CLI

> **Tip**
>
> If you are a member of multiple organizations, make sure you select the
> correct organization from the drop down in the top right.

> > ![Screenshot showing organization picker in the Docker Scout dashboard](./images/scout-onboarding-org-picker.png){:width="250px"}

Reviewer: I don't think this screenshot is necessary

> > {: .tip }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{: .tip }
```

---
title: Docker Scout quickstart
keywords: scout, supply chain, vulnerabilities, packages, cves, scan, analysis, analyze
description: >
  Learn how to get started with Docker Scout to analyze images and fix vulnerabilities
redirect_from:
  - /atomist/get-started/
---

{% include scout-early-access.md %}

Docker Scout analyzes image contents and generates a detailed report of packages
and vulnerabilities that it detects. It can provide you with
suggestions for how to remediate issues discovered by image analysis.

This guide takes a vulnerable container image and shows you how to use Docker
Scout to identify and fix the vulnerabilities, compare image versions over time,
and share the results with your team.

## Setup

[This example project](https://github.com/docker/scout-demo-service) contains 
a vulnerable Node.js application that you can use to follow along.

1. Clone its repository:

>     ```shell
>     git clone https://github.com/docker/scout-demo-service.git
>     ```

Reviewer: Change to `console`, add prompt, and indent by three spaces. Here and all other occurrences

````suggestion
   ```console
   $ git clone https://github.com/docker/scout-demo-service.git
   ```
````

2. Move into the directory:

    ```shell
    cd scout-demo-service
    ```

3. Build the image, naming it to match the organization you will push it to, 
and tag it as "v1":

    ```shell
    docker build -t <org-name>/scout-demo:v1 .
    ```

4. Create and push the repository on Docker Hub:

    ```shell
    docker push <org-name>/scout-demo:v1
    ```

    > **Important**
    >
    > Make sure you log in to the Docker CLI or Docker Desktop before pushing.

>     > {: .important}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {: .important}
```

> ## Enable Docker Scout

Reviewer: Missing a newline

```suggestion
## Enable Docker Scout

```

Docker Scout analyzes all local images by default. To analyze images in
remote repositories, you need to enable it first.

> [You can do this from Docker Hub, the Docker Scout Dashboard, and CLI](/scout).

Reviewer: This link text is too long

> 1. Use the Docker CLI [`docker scout repo enable`](/engine/reference/commandline/scout_repo_enable)
> command to enable analysis on an existing repository with the following command:

Reviewer: list items with overflow must be indented. (Here and all other ocurrences)

```suggestion
1. Use the Docker CLI [`docker scout repo enable`](/engine/reference/commandline/scout_repo_enable)
   command to enable analysis on an existing repository with the following command:
```

    ```shell
    docker scout repo enable <org-name>/scout-demo
    ```

## Analyze image vulnerabilities

After building, you can use Docker Desktop or the `docker scout` CLI command 
to see vulnerabilities detected by Docker Scout.

> 1. Using Docker Desktop, select the image name in the **Images** tab to see 

Reviewer: we do not usually refer to the main views as tabs

```suggestion
1. Using Docker Desktop, select the image name in the **Images** view to see 
```

redirect_from:
  - /atomist/get-started/
---

{% include scout-early-access.md %}

Docker Scout analyzes image contents and generates a detailed report of packages
and vulnerabilities that it detects. It can provide you with
suggestions for how to remediate issues discovered by image analysis.

This guide takes a vulnerable container image and shows you how to use Docker
Scout to identify and fix the vulnerabilities, compare image versions over time,
and share the results with your team.

## Setup
[This example project](https://github.com/docker/scout-demo-service) contains 
a vulnerable Node.js application that you can use to follow along.

1. Clone its repository:

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/docker/scout-demo-service.git
    ```

2. Move into the directory:

    ```shell
    cd scout-demo-service
    ```

3. Build the image, naming it to match the organization you will push it to, 
and tag it as "v1":

    ```shell
    docker build -t <org-name>/scout-demo:v1 .
    ```

4. Create and push the repository on Docker Hub:

    ```shell
    docker push <org-name>/scout-demo:v1
    ```

    > **Important**
    >

>     > Make sure you login to the Docker CLI or Docker Desktop before pushing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > Make sure you log in to the Docker CLI or Docker Desktop before pushing.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > Make sure you sign in to the Docker CLI or Docker Desktop before pushing.
```

Author: @usha-mandya Happy to change this, but I can see the docs using "login" in a LOT of places, so should we also do a bulk update and some Vale rules etc?

Reviewer 2: @ChrisChinchilla It should be two words when used as a verb. Also, we recommend using "sign in" instead of "log in" as per our style guide. Didn't pick this up in my first pass. My bad.  Maybe we should add this rule to Vale?

    > {: .important}

## Enable Docker Scout
Docker Scout analyzes all local images by default. To analyze images in
remote repositories, you need to enable it first.
[You can do this from Docker Hub, the Docker Scout Dashboard, and CLI](/scout).

> 1. Use the Docker CLI [`scout repo enable`](/engine/reference/commandline/scout_repo_enable)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use the Docker CLI [` docker scout repo enable`](/engine/reference/commandline/scout_repo_enable)
```

command to enable analysis on an existing repository with the following command:

    ```shell
    docker scout repo enable <org-name>/scout-demo
    ```

## Analyze image vulnerabilities

After building, you can use Docker Desktop or the `docker scout` CLI command 
to see vulnerabilities detected by Docker Scout.

> 1. Using Docker Desktop, select the image name in the **images** tab to see 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Using Docker Desktop, select the image name in the **Images** tab to see 
```

the image layer view. In the image hierarchy section, you can see which layers 
introduce vulnerabilities and the details of those.

2. Select layer 5 to focus on the vulnerability introduced in that layer.

3. Toggle the disclosure triangle next to **express 4.17.1** and then the CVE ID (in this case, "CVE-2022-24999⁠") to see details of the
vulnerability.

> 4. You can also use the Docker CLI to see the same results.

Reviewer 2: This is another way to see the details of the vulnerability. Should this be a new step?

Author: @usha-mandya I went back and forth on this myself, happy to make it part of the same

    ```shell
    docker scout cves <org-name>/scout-demo:v1
    ```

![Screenshot showing highlighting a CVE in Docker Desktop](./images/scout-onboarding-dd-v1-cvve-focus.png){:width="650px"}

Docker Scout creates and maintains its vulnerability database by ingesting and
collating vulnerability data from multiple sources continuously. These sources
include many recognizable package repositories and trusted security trackers.
You can find more details in the [Advisory Database sources](./advisory-db-sources.md) document.

> **Tip**
>

> > Find out how filter results [in the reference documentation for the CLI command](/engine/reference/commandline/scout_cves).

Reviewer 2: Should this be "..how to filter results.."?

```suggestion
> Find out how to filter results using the CLI command [`scout cves`](/engine/reference/commandline/scout_cves).
```

> > Find out how to filter results using the CLI command [`scout cves`](/engine/reference/commandline/scout_cves).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Find out how to filter results using the [`docker scout cves`](/engine/reference/commandline/scout_cves) CLI command.
```

## Fix application vulnerabilities

The fix suggested by Docker Scout is to update
the underlying vulnerable express version to 4.17.3 or later.

1. Update the `package.json` file with the new package version.

    ```json
    …
      "dependencies": {
        "express": "4.17.3"
        …
      }
    ```

2. Rebuild the image, giving it a new version tag:

    ```shell
    docker build -t <org-name>/scout-demo:v2 .
    ```

> 3. Push the image it to the same repository on Docker Hub using a new version tag:

Reviewer 2: typo: image it to

Author: ```suggestion
3. Push the image to the same repository on Docker Hub using a new version tag:
```

    ```shell
    docker push <org-name>/scout-demo:v2
    ```

Now, viewing the latest tag of the image in Docker Desktop, the Docker Scout
Dashboard, or CLI, you can see that you have fixed the vulnerability.

## Fix vulnerabilities in base images

In addition to identifying application
vulnerabilities, Docker Scout also helps you identify and fix issues with the
base images your images use.

> 1. In Docker Desktop and the Docker Scout Dashboard, you can see these suggestions

Reviewer 2: I can see the **Recommended fixes** section on the Scout Dashboard, but couldn't see it in DD. Where exactly does the button appear in Docker Desktop?

Author: @usha-mandya I have since found out that there have been change that means it's a bit sporadic when it shows in DD, I will try and find out when/why and if we need to mention or just remove this…

Author: @usha-mandya Removed for now as it seems this is only if you pull from remote first so not applicable at this stage of the quickstart

by selecting the **Recommended fixes** button in the image layer view.

> 2. Select the **Recommendations for base image…** option from the button. In the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select the **Recommendations for base image** option from the button. In the
```

> dialogue that appears, select the **Change base image** tab, the new version of

Reviewer 2: typo: dialogue

Author: ```suggestion
dialog that appears, select the **Change base image** tab, the new version of
```

the base image you want to use, and copy the suggestion into your `Dockerfile`.

3. Rebuild the image, again with a new tag:

    ```shell
    docker build -t <org-name>/scout-demo:v3 .
    ```

4. Push it to Docker Hub using the new version tag:

    ```shell
    docker push <org-name>/scout-demo:v3
    ```

5. Select the new image tag in Docker Desktop or the Docker Scout Dashboard and you
can see that the base image has been updated, removing many vulnerabilities.

> 6. You can see the same using the Docker CLI command:

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above. This can be part of step 5 as it's another way to see the results.

    ```shell
    docker scout cves <org-name>/scout-demo:v3
    ```

## Collaborate on vulnerabilities

You can see and share the same vulnerability information about an image and
the other images in your organization in the [Docker Scout Dashboard](./dashboard.md).
All organization members can see an overview of all their images from Docker Hub and Artifactory,
and get remediation advice at their fingertips. This helps team members in
security, compliance, and operations to know what vulnerabilities and issues to focus on.

> 1. Select the **Images** tab of the [Docker Scout Dashboard](https://scout.docker.com).

Reviewer 2: nit: Would it read better with "Select the **Images** tab on the Docker Scout Dashboard? Wasn't sure if "...tab of the Dashboard..: reads well.

2. Select any of the tags under

> the **Most recent image** column, and you can see the same vulnerability

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the **Most Recent Image** column, and you can see the same vulnerability
```

information as you saw in Docker Desktop and the Docker CLI and share this link with anyone else in your organization.

> **Tip**
>
> If you are a member of multiple organizations, make sure you select the

> > correct organization from the drop down in the top right.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> correct organization from the drop-down in the top right.
```

> ![Screenshot showing organization picker in the Docker Scout dashboard](./images/scout-onboarding-org-picker.png){:width="250px"}
{: .tip }

## Comparing image tags

Over time as you build and push new tags of images, you can use the Docker Scout
CLI and Dashboard to compare the changes to vulnerabilities and packages in
different tags of the same image.

> 1. Using the Docker Scout Dashboard, select the repository to compare from the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On the Docker Scout Dashboard, select the repository to compare from the
```
